The Joe Rogan experience.
Did you see what happened with Neil DEROS Tyson that Neil DEROS Tyson got in
trouble for tweeting something the other day, uh, after the mass shootings,
right? People were at him because it pull the, pull the, the tweet up,
cuz it's pretty interesting cuz it's it's just accurate and people were
angry and they're saying he's using his platform. Irresponsive believe. No,
he was trying to let people know that although these shootings are
a tragedy,
they are a small number of deaths and there's so many other deaths that happen
here. It goes the past 48 hours,
the USA horrifically lost 34 people to mass shootings. On average,
across 48 hours, we also lose 500 hundred to medical errors,
300 to the flu, 250 to suicide, 200 to car accidents,
40 to homicides via handgun.
Often our emotions respond more to spectacle than to data.
Now that is not a bad tweet, but I saw a scientist who was writing.
I am unfollowing him. He is using his platform.
It responsibly a lot of virtue signaling really? Because what,
what he's saying is not that there's anything wrong with, uh, you know,
feeling ho horrified by these tragedies. I mean,
he's saying we horrifically horrifically lost 34 people to mass
shootings,
but he's saying it's interesting that there's people dying left and right all
throughout this country all day long, just not at the hands of one person.
So we look at it differently. And he's just saying,
he's just giving you data as a.
Scientist. And that's, that's exactly what it is. He's a scientist. Yes.
And so a scientist can separate the emotion,
but people don't people find, people.
Find his apology cause hispology is even more interesting. People.
Will consider a mass shooting much worse than,
you know, heart attacks. Yes.
Yeah. So listen to this.
So this is the other thing yesterday I posted in reaction to the horrific mass
shootings in America, over the previous 48 hours,
killing 34 people spawned mixed in highly critical responses.
If you missed it, I offered a short list of largely preventable causes of death.
Along with their average two day death toll in the United States,
they significantly exceeded the death toll from the two days of mass shootings,
including the number of people, 40 who on average,
I from handgun homicides every two days,
I then noted that we tend to react emotionally to spectacular incidences of
death.
With the implication that more common causes of death trigger
milder responses within us.
My intent was to offer objectively true information that might help shape
conversations and reactions to preventable ways we die.
Where I miscalculated was that I genuinely believed that the tweet would be
helpful to anyone trying to save lives in America.
What I learned from the range of reactions that, uh, is that for many people,
some information, my tweet in particular can be true, but unhelpful,
especially at a time when many people are either still in shock or trying to
heal or both. So if you are one of those people,
I apologize for not knowing in advance what effect my tweet could have had on
you.
I'm therefore thank thankful for the candor and depth of critical
reactions shared in my Twitter feed as an educator,
I personally value knowing with precision and accuracy, what reaction,
anything that I say or right will instill in my audience.
And I got this one wrong respectfully submitted. And then it says,
Neil degrasta Tyson. Now, even that people are saying not enough,
not good enough, a response it's almost like today.
There's certain people today that D they don't give a whether or not you're,
you're saying something with sincerity, whether you are sorry, they don't,
sorry's not enough. Like they don't. They just want, yeah.
They wanna be mad at you. And even if you're sorry,
if you admit you made a mistake, no forgiveness. There's no road to redemption.
There's no, there's no, I get what you were doing.
I think that it depends on, you know, as far as is the sorry,
enough or whatever,
depends on the pattern of the person now with Neil Degrass Tyson,
this is what I think happened in here. This is my opinion. He's a scientist.
So he gives information. So he saw this and said, oh, wait a minute.
This many people died from medical mistakes. Yes. This many. And,
and people didn't react. What he, doesn't where he messed up with the timing.
Yes. You don't say that the day after the mass shooting, you say it, uh,
maybe a week later or something like, Hey, you know,
people die in a lot of weight, blah, blah, blah. Now what he in is,
I didn't know that I'm a scientist, right? I didn't,
I wasn't aware of the emotional impact.
Thank you for telling me the emotional impact.
And I'm sorry that I hurt people's feelings,
which to me is totally legitimate.
Especially coming from who he is and what, what,
I would think the scientific mindset now, there were some people like, yeah,
exactly what you said. They decided you're a terrible person for saying this.
So that apology isn't enough. There's nothing he could do. Right.
But see there there's certain people, right? There's nothing you can do.
That's gonna change their mind. You know, you, you look at,
look at the Obama birth certificate, right.
So even when the birth certifi came out,
there's a certain percentage of the people that they're still like, well, no,
that's fake, right?
Like there was no way he was ever gonna be American to these people.
Or there there's a certain, you know, you, you travel,
you know, like I, you know,
there's certain groups like you ain't gonna get 'em right. They,
their minds made up and they're in their bubble. They're in there,
whatever it is. And they they're surrounded by like-minded people.
Like you said, like, this is the disadvantage of the internet, right?
The advantage of the internet is all of this information.
The disadvantage is you find people who only think like you and you only talk to
them and you build this bubble. Yeah. Well, well, yes.
So there's a group of people, a percentage. I don't know.
However you want to describe it.
That decided the moment he said that this is an unfeeling, horrible person,
blah, blah, blah. I mean, I said, you know my thing with the,
with the mass shootings, I'm like, listen, we don't care.
We say, we, we care individual. Like, it's very sad for that family.
It's very, to me, the,
the worst part of a mass shooting is somebody went to Walmart that day.
They didn't know it was gonna be the last day of their life.
They're never gonna see their family. Again, somebody went out to a club in,
in Ohio. They didn't know. They never come. That's the,
the tragic part. And that is said, but in the grand scheme of things,
we don't do anything. We don't, you know, we,
we say it doesn't work before we even try it. Like,
there's nothing we do that changes. Even after Vegas,
when they said they were gonna ban, what was it called?
The bump stop or whatever it was that thing that helped shoot faster.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and then ultimately they didn't even ban that. You know?
So, so as a society, we say we care,
but we don't. Cuz we don't change anything. You gotta change something.
Nothing changes if nothing changes. Right. Well where we're.
Getting way off track here. But with neilgras Tyson,
the outrage thing DIDT rage me. No, no, I, it I't outrage you either, right? No.
Because he's a scientist. What he said said just is truth. Yeah.
And data is true and data is delivered without emotion. Yeah.
And why people were upset is because he delivered truth with no
emotion and he, but he.
Did, he said horrifically, I mean, he was talking about the tragedy. Yeah.
The thing is that just people looking to be upset. Oh.
Absolutely. Yeah, yeah. Absolutely. People look for,
for something to be mad about. Yeah.
Or something to be outraged about and that, you know,
what that takes away from it takes away from real outrage.
Yes. Right? Yeah. It, it diminishes.
It. If you're outraged every day, then you know, then, okay.
So what's really outrageous, right. If, if I'm gonna be upset,
if I'm gonna be upset at a scientist for giving me scientific data,
what do I want? Yeah.
I guess the timing was the issue. The timing was the issue.
It wasn't an issue with me. I mean, I get what he's doing. I'm not a moron.
I mean, it was just, it's simple.
He's he was just giving you all sorts of different horrific deaths
that occur all throughout the country. And I think on that same weekend,
there was some unprecedented number of people that were shot and killed in
Chicago. Like Chicago is.
A Chicago's in it's, but war, you know, war zone, it's a war zone. Yeah. And,
and it, the thing is, you know, people say, well, what about the gun laws?
And it's yeah. But they, all you gotta do is go to Indiana.
Like you go two hours away and you can get whatever you want. Just, you know,
that's the mm-hmm <affirmative>, that's the thing.
So just driving a car to a gun show. So just as a city, Chicago's like, look,
we we're trying, but we can't. Right. You know,
what are we gonna set up borders and check every car coming into Illinois. God.
And you'd have to go in every house. Exactly. It's.
Not even you enough. So you can't, you can't do that. Yeah. It it's. But yeah,
his thing, I think it was a time and I'm like you, that didn't offend me.
I get what he was saying. And then this is it's.
Can't offend you. If you're a rational human, it can't.
Offend you, you know,
you know what bothers me when people pretend to be ignorant of something
and they're not how so? Well, when people like, like, for example,
with this, like there's some people like, oh, we can use this to,
to create some dislike against Neil as Tyson know or
whatever. It's generally it's generally politicians do it. Right. When they,
they say something and they're like, oh, I didn't know.
That was offensive around. It's like, yes you did.
But you know your followers didn't you see what I mean?
Like you can talking like, gimme an example talking. I'm trying,
trying to think of an example. Okay. Well, well with the mass shootings, right?
So the,
so the whole thing of saying that Trump's tweets had nothing to do with it.
Yes they did. Yes. Now they, they didn't directly, but yeah,
it did normalize. And this guy used the same language of the,
you know, invasion, et cetera.
So you can't say that it's completely a unrelated, you know what I mean?
You can't, you can't don't pre and, and again, it's not saying direct, but,
but you can't pretend there's no connection. Right, right. There's a direct.
And areion are people connect.
Cause it's quotes. There are people who are intelligent enough to know that,
but they'll say no, no there's no. And it's like, yes, there is. And you know,
there are, don't faint. It gnorance, that's what I mean. Right. But you.
Know,
the guy in Dayton who really up one was that guy's an Elizabeth Warren supporter
who actually wrote about gun control. I mean, he was just a horrific suit.
Homicidal, yeah. Psychopath.
And there, there, listen, there, you have to have some,
there has to be something wrong with you to do that. You like, even, you know,
in, regardless of your political beliefs,
there has to be something wrong with you,
but you can be sparked or you can be egged on. Sure.
Yeah. By the words of, of leaders or political people or powerful people and it,
people of influence perfect way to put it. Yeah. People of influence.
And that's why I think people of influence have to be responsible in what
they say. Yeah. You know, but, but this, but Neil Degrass, Tyson,
this is a different thing.
I think this is just a case of a scientist pointing out information
without, you know, like, like, uh, you know,
you were talking about earlier dorks, nerd,
whatever you wanna say to where it's like, yeah, well this is just information.
I'm not trying to be emotional. And people are like, well, you have to be right.
Exactly. You have to connect. Exactly. You,
even though you're from a lab environment,
you have to understand not everyone is, but that's.
A, that's a, one of the more uncomfortable.
Things about today with social media is that there's a bunch of people that are
really just, they're just authoritarian.
They're they're they demand certain types of behavior and they do so under the
guise of compassion they do.
So under like they're trying to enforce the way people communicate,
like the Neil Degrass Tyson thing. There's you there's,
there's no indication whatsoever that he was minimizing the no, the deaths.
No, but people pretending that he's doing so yeah, there,
there were some people who believe he did,
but there were a lot of people pretending to be right. Offending, pretending.
To be upset. They're finding a nice target. Right? Yeah.
I, you know, <affirmative>, there's.
Too many voices, Alonzo, too many words, too many people out there.
Spewing again, that's the, the,
as we spew the positive and thenegativeity of the internet. Yeah. Yeah.
That's the positive and the negative, the positive is everyone has a voice.
The negative is everyone has a voice. Yeah. <laugh> but this no there's no.
And, and everyone's like, and, and the thing is the,
the middle, the calmest voices, the,
the reasonable voices are the least heard. Of course.
Yeah. Well that's Facebook, right? Facebook's algorithm favors outrage. Yeah.
So if you are on Facebook and you get upset about abortion,
the kinda you're gonna get in your feet. Right.
If you get mad about climate change, there you go.
You're gonna get a lot of climate change talk. Yeah. That that's,
what's gonna show up and God, that makes people nuts.
I mean, oh a again, and this is living in the bubble.
You don't get to hear the other side. Yeah. You know, and, and, and,
and it's not even the, it's the reasonable part at the other side.
Mm-hmm <affirmative>, you know what I mean? Like politically, yeah. I'm left.
I have friends who I call reasonable Republicans and I could talk to a
reasonable Republican. Yeah. I can't talk to a crazy Republican. Right.
You know, can't, if you,
if you say that the mass shootings are based on transgender marriage <laugh>
then we can't talk. We, we got nothing. I I'm sorry, I can't work with you.
Right.
But if you say that taxes should be lower to stimulate the economy and blah,
blah, blah. Yeah. We could talk about that. You know, you know what I mean?
Yeah. That's, that's, that's the difference. Um, and you know, and just,
just like on the left look, I, I believe in the environment, this and that,
but now if you're asking me to give up gasoline, we may have a problem.
I may not be real ready to go that far, just yet.